.TH ZEITGEIST\-DAEMON 1 "May 20, 2009" "Zeitgeist"

.SH NAME
zeitgeist\-daemon \- D\-Bus interface providing a log of activities

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBzeitgeist\-daemon\fP \fI[OPTION]\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBzeitgeist\-daemon\fP is a daemon which keeps track of activities
on your system (file usage, browser history, calendar events, etc.)
and logs them into a central database. It does not only create a
chronologic register, but also supports tagging and can establish
relationships between activities.
.PP
All this information is provided by external applications which
communicate with \fBzeitgeist\-daemon\fP over D-Bus. Interested
programs can connect with it and request information, insert new
items or modify existing information (delete items, add tags,
bookmark items and so on).
.PP
By default, \fBzeitgeist\-daemon\fP will also start the bundled
logging application \fBzeitgeist\-datahub\fP.

.SH OPTIONS
The program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with
options starting with two dashes (`--'). A summary of options is
included below.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-datahub, \-\-no\-passive\-loggers
Do not start \fBzeitgeist\-datahub\fP together with this daemon.
.TP
.B \-\-replace
Replace any existing Zeitgeist instance if there is one already running. If this
option isn't used, \fBzeitgeist\-daemon\fP will refuse to start if another
running instance is found.
.TP
.B --log-level=\fILOG_LEVEL\fP
Specifies how much information should be printed to the standard output.
Possible values are: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL.
.TP
.B \-\-quit
Stop a currently running Zeitgeist instance and exit. This lets Zeitgeist
finish any operation it may currently be doing.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Shows which version of Zeitgeist is being executed.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Shows a short help message listing all supported options.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B ZEITGEIST_DATA_PATH
Overrides the directory where user data files are placed. The default
value is that of XDG's data dir (usually ~/.local/share/zeitgeist).
.TP
.B ZEITGEIST_DATABASE_PATH
This variable lets you specify an override for the filename of the main
database. The default value is $ZEITGEIST_DATA_PATH/activity.sqlite.
.TP
.B ZEITGEIST_DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS
This variable lets you specify an override for the extensions which are
loaded at daemon startup time. Per default the \'Blacklist\' and the
\'DataSourceRegistry\' extension are loaded.
.TP
.B ZEITGEIST_EXTRA_EXTENSIONS
This variable lets you add extensions which are loaded at daemon
startup time.
.TP
The ZEITGEIST_DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS and the ZEITGEIST_EXTRA_EXTENSIONS
variable require a no-space comma separated list of module.class names.
.TP
.B ZEITGEIST_DEBUG_QUERY_PLANS
When set to a non-empty string other than 0 zeitgeist-daemon will send all
SQL queries and their corresponding query plans to the debug log.

.SH SIGNALS
\fISIGHUP\f1: zeitgeist\-daemon will shut itself down in a clean way. 
.RS
It is recommended that system updates of Zeitgeist send this signal to 
all running instances of zeitgeist-daemon. DBus activation will make sure 
the updated software is automatically restarted when needed.

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Zeitgeist terminated normally.
.TP
.B 1
An unspecified error occurred.
.TP
.B 27
A database upgrade failed.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.B environment variables
.PP
To start the daemon with no extensions loaded run:
    ZEITGEIST_DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS= zeitgeist-daemon
.PP
To run the daemon with only the non-default extensions \'bzr.notify\'
and \'tracker.games\' run:
    ZEITGEIST_DEFAULT_EXTENSIONS= ZEITGEIST_EXTRA_EXTENSIONS=bzr.notify,tracker.games zeitgeist-daemon

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBzeitgeist-datahub\fR, \fBgnome-activity-journal\fR

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs on https://bugs.launchpad.net/zeitgeist.

.SH AUTHORS
Please see the AUTHORS file bundled with this application for
a complete list of contributors.

.SH LICENSE
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2.1 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
